_BASIC and the evolution of CCS to DTC_

By the beginning of 1970, numerous studies of the problems of the U.S. securities industry were under way. These problems generated a deep concern within Congress and the [[Securities and Exchange Commission]] ([[SEC]]), suggesting the need for a federal solution. A common conclusion in the private sector was that long-term solutions would require inter-industry efforts, especially with the growing significance of institutional trading. Recognizing this, senior industry executives representing the New York banks and the stock markets met early in 1970 to discuss the creation of an interindustry organization to provide this direction. From these discussions the Banking and Securities Industry Committee (BASIC) was formed, comprised of the CEOs of those organizations. BASIC, chaired by J.P. Morgan's Chairman and CEO, John M. Meyer, Jr., soon added an Executive Director, the recently retired Price Waterhouse Senior Partner, Herman W. Bevis, and a small task force to investigate specific problem areas and to evaluate the myriad solutions offered. Throughout 1970 and much of 1971, BASIC acted on 14 projects designed to reduce the costs and improve the process of securities operations. The most significant of these was the establishment of a Comprehensive Securities Depository System ([[CSDS]]) expanding upon the [[NYSE]]'s [[Central Certificate Service]]. In September of 1971, BASIC announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding among the New York and American Stock Exchanges, the [[National Association of Securities Dealers]], and the eleven member banks of the New York Clearing House Association, toward this end. Regional markets and banks soon joined in the process and a National Coordinating Group (NCG) was formed. The planning to implement the elements of the Memorandum of Understanding was begun immediately, but in an atmosphere of uncertainty due to events unfolding at the Federal level. Beginning in 1970, a series of hearings were conducted by U.S. Senate and House of Representatives sub-committees, and the [[SEC]]. Until their conclusion almost five years later, with the passage of the [[Securities Acts Amendments of 1975]], there was intense discussion and debate over the vision of a [[National Securities Market System]] for the clearance and settlement of [[Securities]] transactions and their regulation. Accordingly; the industry; led by BASIC, and spurred on by Congress, proceeded with its work to develop the [[CSDS]] knowing that its efforts might be preempted by Federal law. Developing the CSDS involved resolving several key issues. These included a formal determination of the depository's characteristics; creation of an acceptable corporate structure and management; commitments to finance the costs of staff, computer equipment and facilities; and the passage of enabling legislation. Plans called for a two-stage evolution of the existing [[CCS]] into an expanded depository system. In the first stage, [[CCS]] was to move from a division of the Stock Clearing Corporation to a trust company chartered under New York State banking law and with Federal Reserve membership. _As_ an interim step, CCS was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary of the [[NYSE]], CCS, Inc., with representation of the Amex, [[NASD]] and NYCH banks on its board. In the second stage of the expansion, ownership of the depository would be shared by its users-a step which would require enabling state legislation. Among the issues to be immediately addressed were the applicability of the New York State stock transfer tax to [[Book-entry]] deliveries; the fiduciary laws of many states limiting the form and means of holding securities in certain capacities; and a revisiting of Article 8 of the UCC which then effectively limited ownership of depositories to securities exchanges and associations. The latter two issues were of particular concern as they would substantially limit the full participation of banks. Work on these issues was undertaken by BASIC with considerable support from virtually all segments of the securities industry. By mid-1972, discussions with New York State and City tax and finance officials resulted in supportive amendment of the stock transfer tax law. During the same period, a separate effort resulted in the introduction and passage of amendments to the New York State fiduciary law which, in turn became a model for other states. By yearend 1973, an additional 15 states had made necessary amendments to their fiduciary laws. Concurrent progress was made in working with states to pass enabling amendments to Article 8 of the UCC([[UCC8]]) into law. By mid-1972, seven states had adopted necessary amendments, and by yearend 1973, 31 states had acted. Taken in sum, these legislative accomplishments cleared the way for expanding the depository program. At the same time that the legislative issues were being addressed, a parallel and equally vigorous effort was under way to complete the many organizational, administrative and legal tasks needed to evolve [[CCS]] into a trust company. The question of whether or not a [[Securities Depository]] could obtain a trust company charter needed to be determined early in the process. In late 1971, BASIC initiated discussions with officials of the New York State Banking Department on this point. The Department concluded that [[Securities Depository]]s could be granted limited purpose trust company charters and issued an amendment to its Supervisory Policy, CB 1, permitting the State Banking Board to accept and consider such applications. Subsequent to the State's action, informal discussions with officials of the Federal Reserve System, regarding membership of a depository trust company, indicated no significant difficulties. Having determined that a trust company charter could be obtained, [[NYSE]] began the preliminary steps in March 1972, starting a year-long process with the submission of a formal charter application on December 28, 1972. William T. Dentzer, Jr., who had recently left the post of Superintendent of the New York State Banking Department, was engaged effective June I, 1972 as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The remaining significant task was that of obtaining the [[Securities and Exchange Commission]]'s approval of the depository's articles of incorporation, by-laws and rules. Drafts were completed in mid-1972 and submitted to the [[SEC]] on September 15th. Following a period of public comment and numerous discussions with the Commission staff, a final draft was cleared in early May, 1973. The approval was conditional on certain changes, particularly with respect to the qualifications for membership in the new depository. While this portion of the rules would continue under review for, months to follow, it was agreed to proceed with the plan. Having previously received approval of its trust company charter on February 27th and of its application for membership in the Federal Reserve System on April 23rd, the final step was taken. The transfer of operations to [[Depository Trust Company]] was completed on May 11,1973.
_Ownership_ _and_ _Governance_
One of the fundamental principles behind the development of [[DTC]] was that it should be owned by its users. Therefore, the [[New York Stock Exchange]] which held 100% of its subsidiary's stock began developing a plan to "spin off" a portion of its ownership soon after [[DTC]] became operational. Still, until 1975, the extent of bank usage and therefore the field of potential user/owner "[[Participant]]s" was modest due to continued concern over possible Federal legislation, regulatory interpretation, and a residual number of states without enabling amendments to Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code. However, by early 1975, events were beginning to unfold which encouraged the [[NYSE]] to submit a plan of sale to the [[Securities and Exchange Commission]]. In February 1975, the U.S. Attorney General issued a news release encouraging all financial institutions to use central depositories and [[Book-entry]] system to reduce theft and loss; in March, the American Bankers Association strongly endorsed depositories at its annual Trust Operations and Automation Workshop; in May, the [[SEC]] released a letter making clear that an investment company's direct or indirect participation in a depository would conform to the Commission's rules; and in June the [[Securities Acts Amendments of 1975]] was signed into law. The legislation's regulatory provisions established the [[SEC]] as the primary regulator of [[Securities Depository]]s but provided for shared regulatory authority with the Federal Reserve for Fed members such as [[DTC]]. The 1975 legislation combined federal regulation and private sector self-regulation, representing a well-balanced compromise between the public and private sectors which fostered significant growth in the industry for the next 25 years. This was due in large part to the industry's ability to work closely, primarily through BASIC, with Congress and the SEC, commencing in 1970. The NYSE's plan was approved on October 9th and the sale of approximately 39% of [[DTC]] capital stock took place on October 31st. For the initial distribution, each [[Participant]] that was not a member of the [[NYSE]], Amex or [[NASD]] was offered a portion of [[DTC]] stock based proportionately on its [[DTC]] use during the last quarter of 1974. Stock representing the use by [[Broker]]/dealers was offered to their respective organizations. Thus, Amex and [[NASD]] were each offered 8% while the [[NYSE]] held approximately 61% including depository stock not bought by eligible purchasers. In October 1976, the [[NYSE]] further broadened the stockholder base by giving [[Broker]]/dealers the right, at their own election, to own [[DTC]] capital stock directly. By the end of the decade, the number of organizations purchasing their share entitlement rose from 24 to 55, comprising 28 broker/dealers, 22 banks and five [[Self Regulatory Organization]]s and [[Clearing Agency]]s.
_Service_ _and_ _growth_ _in_ _the_ _'70S_
Throughout the period of transition from [[CCS]] to [[DTC]], and for the remainder of the 1970s, the depository embarked on a program to attract increased membership and participation. Setting the pattern for the future, it immediately set out to expand issue eligibility, establish mutually beneficial interfaces with other depositories and [[Clearing Agency]]s, develop cost effective services for the growing number of users, and apply technology solutions to the industry's operations problems. Eligibility over the decade increased from approximately 1,200 issues to more than 13,000. From an initial base of NYSE-listed equity issues, the depository first extended eligibility to Amex-listed and NASD [[Over-The-Counter]] issues, in response to [[Participant]]s' wishes. By the close of 1979, the list of eligible issues included most publicly traded domestic common and preferred stock, corporate bonds, American Depositary Receipts, U.S. Treasury notes and [[Bonds]], and some interchangeable municipal bonds. To extend its Participants' ability to effectively use other industry utilities, DTC collaborated with the regional exchanges and their clearing corporations and depositories to build the necessary interfaces. At the end of the decade, these interfaces included: the Midwest Securities Trust Company in Chicago, the New England Securities Depository Trust Company in Boston, the Pacific Securities Depository Trust Company in San Francisco, and The Philadelphia Depository Trust Company. Since its inception, [[DTC]] had been closely linked to the clearing corporations of the [[NYSE]], Amex and [[NASD]] and had collaborated in the implementation of the Continuous Net Settlement System ([[CNS]]) developed for their members. The three clearing corporations combined in 1977 to form the National Securities Clearing Corporation ([[NSCC]]), with which [[DTC]] continues to work in close partnership. In response to the proliferation of failed trades in the institutional market, [[DTC]]'s staff worked with the NYCH Securities Committee, chaired by William Powers of Chase Manhattan, to develop an automated process to connect the three principal parties to such trades-[[Broker]]/dealers, investment managers, and custodian banks. The result was the [[Institutional Delivery]] ([[ID]]) system introduced in 1973. As harbingers of more futuristic technologies to follow, the depository piloted the Participant Terminal System ([[PTS]]) in 1974 and the Computer-to-Computer Facility ([[CCF]]) in 1979, eliminating an average of more than 90,000 paper transactions per day by 1980.
