Close-out Requirement. [[Rule 204]] requires [[Broker]]s and dealers that are [[Participant]]s of a registered [[clearing agency]] to take action to close out failure to deliver([[FTD]]) positions. Closing out requires the broker or dealer to purchase or borrow [[Securities]] of like kind and quantity. The participant must close out a failure to deliver for a [[short sale]] transaction by no later than the beginning of regular trading hours on the settlement day following the settlement date. If a participant has a failure to deliver that the participant can demonstrate on its books and records resulted from a long sale, or that is attributable to [[Bonafide Market Making]] activities, the participant must close out the failure to deliver by no later than the beginning of regular trading hours on the third consecutive settlement day following the settlement date. If the position is not closed out, the broker or dealer and any broker or dealer for which it clears transactions (for example, an introducing broker) may not effect further short sales in that security without borrowing or entering into a bona fide agreement to borrow the security (known as the “pre-borrowing” requirement) until the broker or dealer purchases shares to close out the position and the purchase clears and settles. In addition, [[Rule 203(b)]](3) of [[Reg SHO]] requires that participants of a registered clearing agency must immediately purchase shares to close out failures to deliver in securities with large and persistent failures to deliver, referred to as “[[Threshold Securities]],” if the failures to deliver persist for 13 consecutive settlement days. Threshold securities are equity securities that have an aggregate fail to deliver position for five consecutive settlement days at a registered clearing agency (e.g., National Securities Clearing Corporation ([[NSCC]])); totaling 10,000 shares or more; and equal to at least 0.5% of the [[Issuer]]'s total shares outstanding. As provided in Rule 203 of Regulation SHO, threshold securities are included on a list disseminated by a self-regulatory organization (“[[SRO]]”). Although as a result of compliance with Rule 204, generally a participant’s fail to deliver positions will not remain for 13 consecutive settlement days, if, for whatever reason, a participant of a registered clearing agency has a fail to deliver position at a registered clearing agency in a threshold security for 13 consecutive settlement days, the requirement to close-out such position under Rule 203(b)(3) remains in effect.
https://www.sec.gov/investor/pubs/regsho.htm