The National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (NASD®) is the largest securities industry self-regulatory organization ([[SRO]]) in the United States. It operates and regulates The Nasdaq ([[NASDAQ]]) Stock MarketSM—the world’s largest screen-based stock market and the second largest [[Securities]] market in dollar value of trading—and other screen-based markets. The NASD also oversees the activities of the U.S. [[Broker]]/dealer profession and regulates Nasdaq® and the over-the-counter ([[OTC]]) securities markets through the largest self-regulatory program in the country. The NASD consists of a parent corporation that sets the overall strategic direction and policy agendas of the entire organization and ensures that the organization’s statutory and self-regulatory obligations are fulfilled. Through a subsidiary, The Nasdaq Stock Market ([[NASDAQ]]), Inc., the NASD develops and operates a variety of marketplace systems and services and formulates market policies and listing criteria. Through another subsidiary, NASD Regulation, Inc., the NASD carries out its regulatory functions, including onsite examinations of member firms, continuous automated surveillance of markets operated by the Nasdaq subsidiary, and disciplinary actions against broker/dealers and their professionals.

The NASD was organized under the 1938 Maloney Act amendments to the [[Securities Exchange Act of 1934]] by the securities industry in cooperation with the U.S. Congress and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ([[SEC]]). Securities industry representatives—recognizing the need for, and actively seeking the responsibilities of, self-regulation—worked with the SEC to obtain this legislative authority. Putting into practice the principle of cooperative regulation, the [[Maloney Act]] authorized the [[SEC]] to register voluntary national associations of broker/dealers for the purpose of regulating themselves under SEC oversight. The NASD is the only securities industry association to have been established under the Maloney Act amendments. Presently, all securities firms in the United States that transact business with the public are required by law to be a member of the NASD. The NASD’s founding mandate was to standardize the securities industry’s principles and practices, to promote high standards of commercial honor, to advance just and equitable principles of trade for the protection of [[Investor]]s, to adopt and enforce rules of fair practice, and to foster observance by its members of federal and state securities laws. The NASD, taking direction from the SEC in 1963, has also adopted, as another tenet of its self-regulatory mandate, the promotion of capital formation by developing, operating, and regulating fair and efficient screen-based securities markets. The Nasdaq Stock Market ([[NASDAQ]]) was founded in 1971 to fulfill this mandate.

https://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/Corporate/p009762.pdf