# The Crisis That Closed NYSE on Wednesdays

In the late 1960s, an unusual crisis struck [[wall street]]. With daily trading volume on the [[New York Stock Exchange]] soaring to new heights, the average number of [[shares]] changing hands had more than doubling in just three years. In this era before automated systems and processing, the Street soon became overwhelmed.

In the days before computerized trading and a centralized electronic stock delivery system, the Street depended on messengers tasked with trudging up and down Wall Street to deliver paper stock certificates by hand. By 1968, daily trading volume hit 12 million shares a day. The sheer mass of [[Physical Securities Certificates]] and other paperwork overwhelmed many Wall Street back offices, the groups working behind the scenes to settle and clear trades.

What would become known as the “Paperwork Crisis” forced the [[NYSE]] to restrict trading to four days a week. For months the exchange closed on Wednesdays, and sometimes needed to close early on other days to give firms additional time to combat severe backlogs. The extra time wasn’t enough to stem the flood of “fails” — failures by firms to receive or deliver securities within five days of a trade — that rocked the street.
https://www.marketmemoir.com/blogs/the-memoir/an-unusual-crisis-paperwork#:~:text=In%20the%20late%201960s%2C%20an,trade%20—%20that%20rocked%20the%20street.

[[Institutions]] as a group-excluding endowments, foundations, investment counseling accounts and various minor types of institutionally managed portfolios for which data are not available prior to 1952-increased their share of total stock outstanding from less than 7 percent to approximately 19 percent between the turn of the century and 1952 (chapter II). A-more comprehensive definition of financial institutions places estimates of institutional holdings at approximately 24 percent of outstanding corporate [[Stock]] in 1952, a figure that increased to 26 percent by 1958 where, with some fluctuations, it remained throughout the following decade (chapter III). Individual holdings, net of institutional and foreign, amounted to 71.7 percent of all outstanding equity securities (including stock in closely held corporations) in 1958 and 71.8 percent a decade later, in 1968.

https://www.sechistorical.org/collection/papers/1970/1971_0310_SECInstitutionalInvestor_01.pdf

The Martin report blamed the issues in of the [[Securities]] markets on “the appearance of two new forces: institutional [[Investor]]s and computers.” [5](https://www.sechistorical.org/museum/galleries/msr/msr02b_institutional_investors.php#ftn5) In truth, the largest disruption was caused more by lack of automation, for while corporate America was steadily computerizing in the 1960s, [[Broker]]-dealers, shielded from competitive pressures by fixed commission rates, did not, leaving them woefully unprepared for growth. In 1964, the average daily volume on the [[NYSE]] was $4.89 million—four years later, it hit $14.9 million. A “paperwork crisis” began in 1967. Throughout the financial district stock certificates were piling up, even as clerks worked seven-day weeks and brokerage firms hired third shifts. Although the NYSE intervened to help its members (some of whom were now computerizing as quickly as possible), the pressure was too great—the first firm to fail was Pickard & Company, in May 1968.

The paperwork crisis was followed by financial turmoil as the nation entered the recessionary 1970s. In the year after May 1969, the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 35 percent. This market shock resulted in the disappearance of 160 NYSE member organizations, about half of them to merger. As brokerages failed, the NYSE helped cover investor losses out of a trust fund. The October 1970 closure of Goodbody and Company, the nation’s fifth largest brokerage, cost $21 million. An unfortunate side effect of the paperwork crisis was that it enabled dishonest market [[Participant]]s to appropriate funds undetected. By one estimate, some $100 to $400 million was stolen from [[Investor]]s between 1964 and 1969. [6](https://www.sechistorical.org/museum/galleries/msr/msr02b_institutional_investors.php#ftn6) Investors protested and Congress listened. In December 1970, Congress passed the Securities Investor Protection Act ([[SIPA]]), creating an insurance fund providing up to $50,000 to investors with [[SEC]] registered broker-dealers.
https://www.sechistorical.org/museum/galleries/msr/msr02b_institutional_investors.php
