Pro rata is a Latin term – meaning “in proportion” – that is used to assign or allocate value in proportion to something that can accurately and definitively be measured or calculated.
Pro rata literally means the division of something to make up a whole. It doesn’t mean that all parts are equal, but that each piece is given value in proportion to something else. It is particularly useful when the exact value of something can’t be easily determined by itself, but can easily be assigned a proportion value when compared to something else.
Examples of pro rata being used include the division of a loan payment being adjusted monthly. The total amount paid by the borrower against the loan is the same each month. However, the amount of monthly payments that are allocated between the principal payment and the interest paid for the loan change each month as the loan is progressively paid off.

Dividend payments are a classic example of pro rata since dividends are paid per share. Shareholders receive dividends in direct proportion to the number of common stock they own.
https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/accounting/pro-rata/

Most large U.S. [[broker-dealers and banks are DTC participants, meaning that they deposit and hold securities at DTC. DTC appears in an issuer’s stock records as the sole registered owner of securities deposited at DTC. DTC holds the deposited securities in “fungible bulk,” meaning that there are no specifically identifiable shares directly owned by DTC participants. Rather, each participant owns a pro rata interest in the aggregate number of shares of a particular issuer held at DTC. Correspondingly, each customer of a DTC participant, such as an individual investor, owns a pro rata interest in the shares in which the DTC participant has an interest. Because the securities held by DTC are for the benefit of its participants and their customers (i.e., investors holding their securities at a broker-dealer), frequently the issuer and its transfer agent must interact with DTC in order to facilitate the distribution of dividend payments to investors, to facilitate corporate actions (i.e., mergers, splits, etc.), to effect the transfer of securities, and to accurately record the number of shares actually owned by DTC at all times.
https://www.sec.gov/investor/alerts/dtcfreezes.pdf