Regulation S-K sets forth requirements for disclosure (other than financial statement disclosure) under both the [[Securities Act of 1933]] and the [[Securities Exchange Act of 1934]] and is applicable to both [[public offering]]s and ongoing reporting requirements. It is a key part of the Commission’s([[SEC]]) “integrated disclosure system,” which was created in 1982 following many years of analysis of the disclosure rules under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Under the integrated disclosure system, most registration and reporting forms under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act refer to Regulation S-K for many of their substantive disclosure requirements. Item 403 – Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

_General background._
This requirement is derived from the provision in [[Schedule A]] of the [[Securities Act of 1933]] calling for the amount of [[Securities]] held by each member of management and owners of more than 10% of any class of the [[Issuer]]’s [[Stock]] and the amount for which each has indicated an intention to subscribe. In 1933, the Commission’s predecessor included similar provisions in [[Form A-1]]. In 1935, the Commission adopted more streamlined requirements in [[Form A-2]], but still called for the name and address of both the record holder and the [[Beneficial Owner]] (if known). In 1947, the Commission adopted revisions to [[Form S-1]], consolidating the requirements relating to security holdings into one item and amending requirements for individual reporting of share ownership of management with a requirement for aggregate amounts of equity [[Securities]] owned by directors and officers as a group. In 1948, the Commission simplified the format of the tabular presentation. In 1977, following the passage of the Williams Act in 1968 (which added Section 13(d) to the Exchange Act) and a series of public hearings held in 1974 by the Commission and Congress on beneficial ownership reporting, the Commission adopted beneficial ownership reporting requirements to provide more objective standards for the application of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act and, in doing so, integrated the information concerning beneficial ownership of securities of publicly owned corporations into registration statement disclosure and periodic reporting requirements. In 1978, the requirement was added to Regulation S-K, combining the requirements from various forms into a new Item 6.1_Summary of past substantive changes to the requirement._ In 1982, as part of the expansion and reorganization of Regulation S-K, the requirements of former Item 6 were moved to Item 403, without substantive changes. Later in 1982, the Commission adopted amendments to the instructions to Item 403 in order to clarify beneficial ownership disclosure requirements. In 1992, the Commission added a requirement for separate disclosure of the security ownership of each named executive officer. In 2006, the Commission adopted additional requirements for disclosure of shares pledged as collateral by named executive officers, directors and director nominees, as well as the disclosure of directors’ qualifying shares.

https://www.sec.gov/files/reg-sk-disclosure-requirements-review.pdf