A security token offering is given where financial instruments are offered publicly to investors that are linked to a [[token]] in such a way that they qualify as [[Securities]] within the meaning of securities regulation. According to the administrative practice of BaFin, the representation of financial instruments not actually to be classified as securities via tokens can even lead to the tokens being classified as so-called securities sui generis in individual cases. Such products are subject to securities regulation. For the [[Tokenization]] of a financial product to lead to its classification as a security sui generis, the tokens must be transferable, tradable on the financial market and equipped with rights similar to securities. A token is tradable if it can be transferred to other users. In the opinion of BaFin, tradability on the financial markets requires in particular that the tokens of an issue have the same structure among themselves. According to BaFin’s administrative practice, the term financial markets refers not only to regulated exchanges, but also to all kinds of  crypto trading platforms. If the financial instrument associated with the token conveys an equity interest similar to that of a shareholder or a debt interest comparable to that of a debt creditor, BaFin also considers the characteristic of rights similar to securities to be fulfilled. If the aforementioned criteria are met, non-fungible assets can also be classified as securities sui generis through tokenization.
https://fin-law.de/en/capital-markets-law/security-token-offering-and-token-sale/