[[OTC]] Threshold is a list of Over-the-Counter [[Equity]] [[Securities]] that are subject either to [[DTCC]]/[[Rule 203(b)]](3) of [[Reg SHO]] or [[FINRA]] [[Rule 4320]]. Regulation SHO applies to equity securities where the [[Issuer]] is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the [[The Exchange Act]] and for which the issuer is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. FINRA Rule 4320 applies to equity securities where the issuer is not registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act and for which the issuer is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. To qualify as [[Threshold Securities]] under Regulation SHO, an equity security must have an aggregate fail to deliver([[FTD]]) position at a registered clearing agency (i.e., National Securities Clearing Corporation, [[NSCC]]) for five consecutive settlement days of 10,000 shares or more that is equal to at least .5% of the security’s total shares outstanding. To qualify as a threshold security under FINRA Rule 4320, an equity security must have an aggregate fail to deliver position at a registered clearing agency of 10,000 shares or more, and an aggregate fail to deliver position valued at $50,000 or more based on the last sale price for the security, or, if not available, the closest last sale price reported for five consecutive settlement days. A security ceases to be a Threshold Security under both Rule 203(c)(6) of Regulation SHO and FINRA Rule 4320 if it does not meet the relevant requirements for five consecutive settlement days. Participants of a registered clearing agency are also subject to the requirements of [[Rule 204]] of Regulation SHO, which generally require fail positions in any equity security be closed prior to 13 consecutive settlement days.
https://www.finra.org/finra-data/browse-catalog/otc-threshold#:~:text=OTC%20Threshold%20is%20a%20list,the%20security's%20total%20shares%20outstanding.

Subject to the requirements of NASD [[Rule 3210]]

Where, for five consecutive settlement days, there are aggregate fails to deliver at a registered clearing agency of 10,000 shares or more and the reported last sale during normal market hours would value the aggregate fail to deliver position at $50,000 or more.

When this occurs, the security becomes subject to mandatory [[Close-out Requirement]]s outlined in NASD Rule 3210.
https://www.nasdaqtrader.com/Trader.aspx?id=RegShoDefs#:~:text=Rule%2032101&text=Where%2C%20for%20five%20consecutive%20settlement,out%20requirements%20of%20Rule%203210.
