Transfer agents record changes of ownership, maintain the [[Issuer]]'s security holder records, cancel and issue [[Physical Securities Certificates]], and distribute [[Dividend]]s. Because transfer agents stand between issuing companies and security holders, efficient transfer agent operations are critical to the successful completion of secondary trades. [[SEC]] rules and regulations are intended to facilitate the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of [[Securities]] transactions and that assure the safeguarding of securities and funds. Information about transfer agent registration, inspections, and rules can be found below.

Section 17A(c) of the [[Securities Exchange Act of 1934]] requires that transfer agents be registered with the [[SEC]], or if the transfer agent is a bank, with a bank regulatory agency. There is no [[SRO]] that governs transfer agents. The SEC therefore has promulgated rules and regulations for all registered transfer agents, intended to facilitate the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and that assure the safeguarding of [[Securities]] and funds. The rules include minimum performance standards regarding the issuance of new certificates and related recordkeeping and reporting rules, and the prompt and accurate creation of security holder records and the safeguarding of securities and funds. The SEC also conducts inspections of transfer agents.
https://www.sec.gov/about/divisions-offices/division-trading-markets/transfer-agents